Introduction

Pollution is one of the serious matters and one of the enemies of nature and human. Although it is a really serious matter yet unsolved. Mixing of pollutants in pure things that makes things harmful or useless called pollution. Pollution is like a curse for humanity, nature and other living beings on earth. It has affected space too.

Type of Pollution

There are so many kinds of pollution. Below are few of them:

Water Pollution
Air Pollution
Soil Pollution
Noise Pollution

There are more but we would talk about four topics given above.

Impact on Living Being

Due to pollution, human health has a bad effect. Drinking polluted water leads to deadly diseases such as cholera and diarrhoea. Air pollution can lead to asthma, respiratory problems, cancerous diseases. Due to soil pollution, the yield of crops is affected, fruits and vegetables can be toxic, which is fatal_to humans and cattle. Sound pollution can lead to irritability, panic and deafness in humans. In fact, every type of pollution affects us in some form.

Impact on Non-living Being

Pollution also affects the survivors. For example, air pollution increases the temperature of the atmosphere, this increases heat, heat causes draught, draught affects the crop, this affects the normal life of the people. Not only that, due to heat rise, ice is melting on the poles of the earth, due to melting of the ice, the water level of the sea is rising, raised water level threatens to sink coastal areas. Scientists believe that in the coming years, the coastal cities will be submerged. As a result, migrating, unemployment, arson and violence will rise. Looks slight in the hearing but just think about it.

Remedies

Development in society is essential for a human being but development has side effect named Pollution. Although we need development it is for users that we should make proper arrangements for the wastage. We should not leave them open in nature. They cause many effects on humans, on creatures and on nature too.

There is a solution of every problem provided that we find the solution and follow it. There are some remedies below:

Water pollution :

(1) Factories must prepare a perfect drainage plan for dirty
water or they should establish a water filter plant in factories
to reuse the water.

(2) Use of soap and detergent must be banned and sewerage must be filtered and use to other works in place of pouring
it into the water.

(3) Polythene, pesticide, solid waste must not be poured into water.

Air Pollution:

(1) Factories must be far from residential areas. There should be a gas absorption system into their chimneys for harmful gases.

(2) Pollution levels must be checked off every vehicle. Also, we can follow vehicle pooling system.

(3) Burning of garbage, polythene, rubber tube, plastic, cow dung cakes, wood, releasing of CFC gases must be controlled.

Soil Pollution:

(1) Farmers must use organic pesticides and fertilizers in place of chemical pesticides for farming.

(2) We must not leave garbage, polythene, plastic, rubber etc. in open or must not bury into the lands.

(3) Contaminated water also contaminates soil, so we also need to fix it.

(4) We should not mix wet and dry waste, we can use two different dustbins.

Noise Pollution:

(1) Factories must be far from residential areas. Use of earplugs can be recommended to workers.

(2) Vehicle fitness checkup must be compulsory.

(3) Loud horns of vehicles must be banned.

The most important:

(1) Every human must cooperate to remove this problem.

(2) The government must make some new policies, review their existing policies and replace or improve it.

(3) Government policies must be followed seriously, it’s our duty as well as our security.

Pollution essay conclusion

Pollution affects us in many ways, so to deal with the problem of pollution, public participation is highly needed because the government keeps changing but we do not.
